WE Post 328 pieces of content a week
right now what 328 pieces each time I
kind of take a little break from social
media when I come back I'm like I'm
consuming less I haven't fasted social
media since social media began
you have your phone with you 24 7. I
wonder what it's like now for parents
who you have that distraction with you
24 7. how do you keep yourself present I
hate the word hashtag couple goals or
whatever I just don't want to go there I
run from that inauthenticity you just
get put on such a pedestal I think the
culture actually forces you to be fake
hey thanks so much for joining me here
today I have a very good friend uh Sean
Cannell who's here with me today today
we're going to talk about social media
and we're just I mean Sean is a YouTube
expert he's a strategist he's helped
people so many people grow their
business figure out what their impact is
that they want to make using video using
social media and that's kind of like how
we met he's one of the professors in our
Academy but more importantly he's um one
of the funniest people I know and very
real and someone who I really enjoy
talking to so I wanted to talk about
social media today fired up love the
topic let's do it everyone says they
want to become an entrepreneur so they
have more freedom and we were were
talking about how there's all these
people who specifically build just kind
of a social media presence as their
business
then they realize they have no Freedom
like it's it becomes a golden prison if
you will
I recently did an episode about burnout
yeah and uh I I'm not I mean to be
honest I use the word burnout in my
title for search engine optimization
purposes I'm not burnt out yeah but I am
very in tune with when something starts
I start to feel resentment towards it or
I'm like okay now now I'm not living the
authentic thing that I wanted to do as
an entrepreneur like I'm doing this
entrepreneurship so I have like freedom
and it's very tempting to just keep
putting more and more things on your
plate and lose that freedom so first
speak to that do you find yourself in
that position well personally I'm trying
to grow in self-awareness and try to get
more in tune with my emotions
um I don't think I've
I am burnt out I don't think I have
burnt out but I and I think I would know
have you ever been close yeah but I
wonder if I've towed the line of burnout
for like the last 15 years
to be honest right well kids will
definitely make you more aware kids can
sometimes be that like okay I can't take
this yeah well and now I'm 39 turning 40
in six months or something and we have a
two and a half year old and a six month
old but I feel healthier and more
balanced and further away from burnout
now than ever before
um probably also because we have an
annual theme in our business every year
last year our theme was at our best as a
team based on a book called at your best
which was about written by Carrie new
off who burnt out heavy had to like
medically take a couple years off and
and so I don't know who that is that
somebody in Social he's a leadership
coach expert huge leadership podcast
okay and I was wrote multiple books but
at your best was really good book so
that that hit me and so we began to
shift our team and our culture across
the board as well as personally and then
this year our theme is built to last and
so we just we canceled our event this
year we canceled our YouTube boot camp
this year we uh backed off of publishing
a new book or trying to write a new book
okay so so you you did that because you
could sense it's too much yes not just
for me it's too much for my team it's
exactly and and as a result as a result
of also hiring team and systems and
being at your six or seven in
entrepreneurship where you even got out
of those early survival days
which all of the above I feel in a
better place than I ever have been but I
yeah I go back and forth and then
sometimes Sonia jokes and probably my
team would tell you some of the things
that will come out of my mouth at a
certain time about that it would seem
like better are you in the verge of a
mental breakdown like what give me well
I just you know like I don't even know
if I can handle this or like I Joe I'm
very cynical and sarcastic
but there's probably a little bit of
Truth in all the sarcasm and uh joking
about just joking about burnout and
um I think again I hope my
self-awareness level is high enough yeah
but but no I think I've been probably a
little too close and probably for a
little bit too long in your relationship
uh with your wife Sonia who is it that's
like more aware of like wait no this is
too much simmer down oh Sonia for sure
oh she doesn't think I listened to her
very well because she will tell me
specific things most husbands don't just
and so I mean probably one of my
problems is I'm very even a very active
even if it's not business we'll be on
our way to Leavenworth Washington in a
very much vacation mode and I'll be like
so hey here's kind of some of the real
estate write-offs that I'm learning
about so I'm thinking we should invest
in a prop she'll be like Sean I just
told you I can't take anymore with
everything we're carrying in business
and then and then I'll you know maybe
bring something else it could be about
real estate it could be about investing
then I'll say you know so I've been
studying some some different taxes stuff
here's some of the different investment
things she could do should be like I
need a break so you know I'm thinking
about you know people we're hiring and
some other stuff yeah like oral for you
to shut off yeah uh so I'm in goal
setting write-offs yeah Finance totally
business uh even Health though then I'll
go yeah I'm thinking about doing this
diet I don't know maybe no you don't
know I don't know you've never been
tested no
um do you have a lot of the symptoms
like when you you know not that social
media can diagnose you but like when you
hear people talking about
what it's like and how like I describe
ADHD is I uh my brain is a TV that has a
thousand channels and someone is sitting
on the remote changing the channels I
don't know it and they're flying through
the channels and I'm just saying them
out loud and they're just coming to my
brain that's what ADHD feels like to me
do people with ADHD change the subject a
lot well yes because I I do that all the
time I go and nobody around me knows
which like I I will go in the most
random directions start just quoting
music lyrics or just completely change
the subject like today I was supposed to
meet you and then you know I got thrown
into a new rabbit hole because you were
like you know can you come early and I
was like I'm not a boy yeah and I'm like
oh now I need to do some lip syncs about
not being a boy like you know rabbit
holes yeah all these things and now then
I'm researching when did Beyonce leave
Destiny's Child like you know what that
is funny but creatively I also yeah I I
do find it difficult to check off my
actual to-do list and I look for Escape
Routes into just making a reel or a
different so you'll you create a sub or
do list or just or or not even a to-do I
would just start doing a community Jam
post I'll oftentimes to avoid
like the things that like Melissa on my
team wants me to actually do do you find
it hard to fo now I'm like your
therapist do you find it hard to focus
when you've got to like for example
write uh an intro for a YouTube channel
and you can hear conversations and
people are asking you questions can you
toggle back and forth between those or
would you prefer like oh just give me
silence for a minute I wait a second
Kyle's nodding off don't look how he
can't do it I don't understand people
who work at coffee shops dude that is
that is ridiculous yeah because no I all
I can hear is the conversations around
me the song playing in the background oh
I can't even work in my home office if
the door is open and Sonia will come
she'll open the door she doesn't close
it she never closes it she'll come in
just like hey then I'm like okay cool
and then she'll walk and I'm like why
don't we have we been married 17 years
because we've been married 17 years and
I'll get up and I'll close the door I
right I really need a door closed office
kind of in the zone to to be productive
to be focused especially to write I can
I can focus once in that environment if
I sit down door closed and I know that
I'm gonna write the intro and an outline
for a podcast that's the mode I'm in but
if you throw me into an environment with
lots of people around and so on and so
forth oh my God I need to be if I'm in
that environment then we just need to
Goof Off joke around talk and do some
stuff yeah I really need separation
between those two environments okay so
speaking of that I think that a lot of
people think they have ADHD because
social media has made us all very easily
distracted right so there there's all
these things fighting for our attention
and like I was just talking to Mel about
how sometimes when I open up my app
I it's not even that that person
triggers me or this particular post
triggers me it just it's too much
dopamine for my brain and too many micro
decisions like do I know this person do
I now do I need to go back to their
profile and figure out why am I
following them who are they
will I offend them if I unfollow them
because I really don't know who this is
should I look at some of their content
before I unfollow them it's this whole
like and it feels very overwhelming and
I found that each time I kind of take a
little break from social media like
almost like a fast I come back and and I
never fast for long like couple days off
a social but when I come back I'm like
I'm consuming less
um
are you consuming less social so on the
theme of built to last and I'll come
back to that we are taking our first
Sabbath week this year or shutting our
company down for two weekends connected
okay paid time off for the team in
addition to their other PTO and federal
holidays and all this stuff and we're
also not going to post on YouTube and we
post 328 pieces of content a week right
now what uh wait did you say 328 pieces
yeah how many people are in your team
are responsible for that
um
I mean with lots of video editors I mean
video editors a couple contractor micro
video editors one the posting just the
Brian is basically doing all of the
posting I mind you when we post when you
post a video podcast though we are
counting YouTube
um Google Spotify Apple so a couple of
the podcast episodes count stories count
sure
um and yeah you know what I mean videos
cow okay okay so every story would be
interesting yeah and and then profile
posts or questions on Facebook dude I we
might be close then yeah I hadn't
thought about that and and he does good
spreadsheets and that was an average
over a month
but we are we do have a dedicated
vertical video editor that takes Clips
out of our video podcast and we're at
two a day two original Clips a day are
being created from our podcast back to
social media
back to social media so we're taking
Sabbath week so I threw out there I'm
thinking I might take a week week off
um and my whole team was you know
creating no creating no creating and it
I remember because in hindsight I
brought it up on the meeting and then
Jordan and Mel on her team were like I
can't believe when you said that like
was that true and I was like and and
thinking about it I haven't fasted
social media since social media began
I mean that actually probably since yeah
I I I've never gone on a social media
fast
even two days
uh no maybe a day but I don't even take
a day okay maybe I put my phone for
multiple hours are you are you consuming
more or less than you were two years ago
I'm probably consuming more wow I'm a
and I I it is something I truly enjoy I
think I if I start to feel like it's too
much and I'm overwhelmed but I mean I
probably consume the most
I consume YouTube content on my Smart TV
okay it's it's therapeutic yeah it's a
lot of different it might be long-form
conversations it could still be very
deep a lot that kind of social media I
almost don't count as social media I
know it is
um but I too can find that like
relaxing entertaining I will stay off
the feeds okay okay so I'm into maybe
I'm more of the YouTube guy and I like
that substantive educational content So
when you say consuming I'm oftentimes
listening to a podcast okay agreed um
audio and then maybe video on the TV and
then it's this is kind of a weird very
Niche thing with kids with my background
like I don't play video games anymore
but I've been a gamer on and off in my
life I'm watching Starcraft 2 which is
like a real there's a strategy game
um playthroughs that are like 45 minutes
long I don't even mostly know who you
are right now I know it's super weird
and and like like what's actually out of
everything else that's happening yeah
it's kind of Esports are like sports to
some weirdos like me you know that
Esports is bigger than Sports yes it
makes sense because there's it's it's
accessible oh and and people it I never
thought I would be this guy but like
yeah watching this game that was also
part of my childhood that's still very
popular in Korea it is a way to unplug
and unwind I get it yeah just watch it
and there's and it's much worse more uh
damaging addictive things you could be
doing yeah that's true
um when you talk about you know YouTube
and consuming content one thing that
totally bugs me and we talked about a
little bit is
um
and I'm worried about these kids right
like and I always joke about like oh I
wish my kids were younger and I could
monetize the hell out of them right I
think like now they're just big old
adults it's no fun but there's so many
people who do like make their social
media platform around their kid right
like not just family like this kid I'm
sure you've seen these channels right
where and then you watch this kid kind
of grow up on camera and they can't
really consent to it right it's not like
a child actor where there are laws
governing it and they they have like a
monetary interest that's protected on
their behalf they and and you see these
parents setting up these scenarios and I
it just makes me worried for the kids
what what are you seeing what are you
hearing
that edited her Vlog wrong and at the
end of her Vlog she was like no like
look sad for the thumbnail no like look
sad and she was shouting at the kid dude
I did yeah it was okay so for those of
you who aren't familiar with the story
it was this uh YouTuber yeah family
YouTuber and basically you know the
thumbnail was like pray for our puppy or
something and the puppy had like maybe
parvo or something but you know they
wanted she wanted to kind of craft the
story where the kid is crying because
she's like we don't know if he's gonna
live or something right it's just like
really like turning the kid into an
actor and and and it made a lot of
people sick yeah and she left in this
part which was gonna be a screen grab
for a thumbnail right and and I think
the kid was resisting too yeah I don't
want it want to I don't know I'm done
and she kept pushing it and she
accidentally left like over 60 seconds
of footage that was meant to be edited
out there are no accidents yeah and so
yeah no it's a very so do is she gone
I'm not sure she probably did the
apology video yeah which that's another
thing sorry like we're gonna jump around
because I'm sure you have adhd2 now but
um enough with the crying videos too
sure there's apology videos I like
watching compilations on YouTube of like
the best and worst apology videos right
okay I'm ready and is it real is it fake
and and uh you know Logan Paul who
people would say is probably a sociopath
very possible
um and and his apology video and his
attack he got in a big crypto scam yeah
and then and then said he was gonna Sue
coffee Zilla and then he apologized and
deleted that video and uh it's like a
thing and the girls had like a minimal
amount of like you can't have too much
makeup on you kind of need you can't be
too cute you need to just like sit down
on the floor for some reason and you
know you just start with like a deep
breath and you go I don't know how I'm
gonna make this video oh yeah you go
I've made it
it's so dumb like literally I I think
that I mean speaking of social media
kids I think it's pretty touchy and I
think that we social media is new enough
and the generations of content creators
are we don't know the Fallout fully yeah
I mean you hear Macaulay culkins maybe
the the the story of you have home alone
and then you have like man he's been
through a rough road right child actor
kind of all of them what's going to
happen to family vloggers who have their
children you know the co-author of our
book YouTube Secrets Benji uh has had a
lot of deep thoughts about this and I
respect him and his wife because they're
OG YouTubers are they still doing well
they're still doing family vlogs
and she started Beauty videos in
2008 so 15 years and they've been
vlogging for like 13 and just their
character their guarding of their
marriage their um some of the things
they do with their kids is
um talk to them about it ask them if
they want to opt out oh they do with
their kids different things and they're
very thoughtful about certain things
they show and they really avoid exploit
exploiting I think people do try to take
the click bait to the extreme and the
ace families got caught for for that and
just
um trying to create excessive drama with
their kids or exploiting
maybe private situation yes absolutely I
mean I've seen these YouTube videos
where they set up a camera and they the
kid doesn't even know that they're being
filmed while they're you know talking to
them about sex or procreation and or
they set up a camera the kid doesn't
know that they're being filmed and
they're just having this like very
heart-to-heart gut-wrenching personal
conversation first of all like I was so
awkward as a kid and to think that like
that footage would be out there today
would just be horrifying yeah you know
and and again I also have accounts I
follow where they show their kids a
little bit and it's cute and it lets you
know what kind of parent they are yeah
but it's not centered around the kid yes
and I think you've got two kids and it's
awfully tempting right well yeah and I
will I mean to me it's also pretty
natural social media is naturally
integrated into my life my Instagram
stories are kind of my daily Vlog
um it's the easiest ready and and rather
than editing a daily Vlog and putting it
out there forever it just disappears
disappears yeah yeah that's true it does
it does disappear yeah and so there uh I
mean I love uh uh integrating my six
month old and you know I'll have my him
on a front pack or I'll be in a walk and
it's just things that come up naturally
but we'll be coming into these I I feel
kind of fortunate because there is some
Runway now there's the Ryan's toy
reviews who's Super Famous yes has been
under scrutiny because they're saying
when could he have ever consented and is
he getting it is he getting anything out
of it who would bring that to
um the attention of authorities uh who's
whose journalists I think would amplify
things and they're like no he does get a
such and such percentage and we're
setting up a trust for him and is it
fair because of how much influence he
has versus what the parents do
um and so it's such a new this kind of
you know dovetails into like fair use
law and copywritten content and
copywritten music it's it's a wild west
oh yeah this new idea of YouTube
empowered people and social media
empowered people to just started
creating content and monetizing it but
how can we used to get banned whenever
we used a song now you can just use
whatever song doesn't matter let's go
yeah I don't know and I don't know
either people ask all the time like I
don't know
I think because of
um things being new obviously money and
greed is a real thing and when people
start just seeing opportunity they can
just get swept up in it Fame they can
get swept up in it so I think what you
also get into the momentum what's funny
is on family vloggers not funny at all
actually is one of the things I love
about Benji and Judy is uh their
Devotion to each other the boundaries
he's set up just to be careful that he
hasn't like blown up his marriage
because over the years how do you do
that other family vloggers
uh many
family vloggers who promoted family and
marriage of course are divorce Affairs
Affairs sexting
um you know met somebody else online and
lots of people sliding into their DMS or
whatever yeah and um and so that the
fact that they haven't just been OG's in
this thing if she tries to slide into my
husband's DMs
I think uh some of the stuff Benji's
done is uh just being thoughtful about
how long he's away from home or how he
travels or he travels when he's alone in
their communication and things like that
we did this video influencers project
for a while not require I'm sorry to
interrupt you but that requires
a degree of humility because I think a
lot of people when they get into this uh
ego takes over yes and adoration takes
over and uh then it's hard to set up
those boundaries and because you can
really use that as an excuse so that's
awesome he does that they also and they
they had a lot of pull they one of the
poll for their family was to LA because
if you're in L.A what do you mean they
allowed to pull meaning pressure and not
maybe external or just career-wide if if
all they cared about was career growth
Fame ego then
um they would have moved to LA and there
was invitations to be a part of this or
that thing you'll get more opportunities
you can collab all the time yeah but for
them family was such a value and also a
little bit of separation from being in
such a high intensity environment where
it's constant influencer parties and all
this other stuff so they they have the
word humility actually really
personifies their family like they live
way well below their means conservative
of decisions I'd call it wisdom just
some wise decisions and here and sure
enough they're still standing today
built to last like they are you know
their families intact and they're
parenting their kids and they're
building more around their relatives and
their parents than around other things
so I Think It's Tricky like I even think
about
um like real housewives all those and
you know shows those franchises that you
part of your brand is your marriage
right and and like
you know
rest in peace Dave Hollis like Rachel
and Dave Hollis like their brand was
their marriage right and I think that
really gets tricky for people it's one
of the reasons why Brett and I oh we
just kind of dabble in doing stuff
together and we're never going to be
marriage experts we're never going to be
you know what I mean because it I just
don't want to be in that space I don't
ever want to be like you know I think
like Kelly Ripa and um her husband Mark
Consuelos now they're doing the show
together so now they're doing post you
know other social medias it just feels a
lot like a brand and that's like Brett
and I are talking about doing some
YouTubes together I'm like I just don't
want to go I don't want to slip down
that slippery slope where people think
you're I hate the word hashtag couple
goals or whatever it's like I just don't
want to go there I run from that
inauthenticity and I think it's it's a
recipe for disaster it's like kind of
getting your spouse's name tattooed on
your body you're for sure gonna get
divorced you're sure there's someone
who's the exception but there's certain
things where it's like it feels like
you're really making something that's
already hard which is marriage and
having kids and making it 100 times
harder well I think I think also the
problem as soon as you platform
the perfect marriage this is this is
happening across I have a background in
Ministry in church and this has happened
across the oh yeah the board with
certain high-profile pastors and leaders
which again they're platforming and I
think that's that's the problem when you
make the pastor the superhero and not
Jesus yes when you platform a person and
if you ever I think you there's probably
a way to do it better where where you're
platforming
some humility in your imperfections as
opposed to platforming couple goals as
soon as you start going down that
Superhero I don't have any weaknesses
yeah and uh unfortunately in that
environment too you just get put on such
a pedestal where I think the culture
actually forces you to be fake or if it
does not actually allow margin for your
imperfections so it's like a flywheel of
you continuing to let's just let's look
the part and again yeah look the part
that's treading lightly with you know
because it's awful you know Dave Hollis
passed away very young yeah but at the
time when their whole announcement of
divorce happened they were doing a
marriage land yeah with a product for
sale of all of that stuff the problem as
soon as they position that though is
even if stuff isn't going well in your
marriage or even very awful you got a
product to sell yes so you have to paint
the product in the best light yeah so
you obviously have to fake it what do
you think about this couple that's
blowing up on YouTube right now that are
that like based their messages
work work work we married for
entrepreneurial reasons yeah um you know
we we don't want to have kids which is
fine I mean that's a personal choice but
it almost feels like this is
I don't know it just really feels like
we're glamorizing
um the hustle grind is the and you know
to have these incredibly lofty goals is
how and and also because they're blowing
up now people are like this is this is
what I'm supposed to be doing yeah what
are your thoughts on that well
I think that if it's true to who they
are and it really is who they are then I
respect them for having self-awareness
that that's what they want to do
personally
um I'm you could call it traditional but
I believe that getting married having
children is part of God's purpose of
course with empathy I know that maybe
you're unable to have children or
there's different situations or that
some people might feel called to a life
of singleness or all those different
things but for like the core majority
there's this is God's design as far as
you know find that person
procreate uh be fruitful multiply and I
know that this is a conservative point
of view but I think that there's
fulfillment found in that and I and I
now and you know that's such a tricky
thing to say right now because like
right you're saying this I'm totally
agreeing with you and in my mind I'm
also saying oh I'm gonna have to temper
all this totally because there's going
to be people listening who are going to
be offended because they have decided
not to do that and they're still you
know just as good as someone who has I
mean with their relationship with Jesus
or that they would love to and they just
haven't met the right person and so this
makes them feel guilt or or maybe
they've struggled with fertility and all
these things just what I guess what I'm
saying is I agree with you but also I we
both also agree that some people it's
just not in the deck of cards for them
and maybe that is part of God's plan but
it does once you've had kids you're like
you can't hide the fact that it brings
you so much joy and that's something I
just I also know that my heart got very
sick towards you know there's a verse in
the Bible that says hope deferred makes
the heart sick so this is also touchy
because I hope deferred in any area you
want the thing to work and it doesn't
and that's that knocks the wind out of
you you wanted the relationship the work
the business to work or you've been
trying for 5 10 15 20 years yep we've
been married 17 years my wife and I and
this wasn't like if if we married and
we're like let's just work all the time
and hustle and build businesses because
that's our thing well then we both were
in unified in our vision and made a
decision I could respect that but we
wanted to start a family and Sonia got
very sick very young in our marriage
yeah and so we went through almost died
my wife almost died
um and so one of the things I realized
was
um you know we didn't have kids until 15
years into being married and we wanted
them the whole time how sick were you of
people saying are you guys going to
irritate like people say that all the
time well yeah because they of course
they don't know and I think empathetic
to like oh why are you guys just made a
decision or you you decided to
prioritize your business it's not we
decided to prioritize our business we
also wanted to just graciously and
humbly you've got to play the hand
you're dealt yep and so you're going
through piece by piece but you know as
in those final couple years along with
the pressure of Entrepreneurship but
certainly the pressure there you know I
I really was in a pretty tough spot I
was drinking a ton I started I didn't
know that I started I mean probably two
three drinks a night and going crazy on
the weekends or you know three four five
six just chilling out and I started
smoking weed and like spending 400 bucks
a week on weed for a while there and you
know you get some weed and alcohol you
can use your skin crunk man you got like
here all right Pastor yeah I know it's
just in so but as I look back you know I
actually was meeting with the past
because I look back kind of being hard
on myself and this person was like you
know even thinking about how God was
seeing me in that situation it was like
you were in a lot of pain and you were
numbing emotional pain yeah and you and
also escaping trying to escape from uh
pressures of business or just cope with
the pressures of business I heard
another entrepreneur I respect that just
talked about drinking a half a fifth of
of whiskey or whatever every night just
to take the emotional pressure that and
stress that mounted up from the day of
building a business and just to get back
to neutral just to try to actually love
plenty of people and get better in that
position so that's kind of where whether
it was I mean and I could look at the
business side but also part of that was
sort of like I got to this place of okay
fine we're financially secure
of course we could have more of a
following on social media but I'm a
small town kid College Dropout like
uh as soon as we could I I didn't have
to hesitate to you know if they said do
you want guacamole at Chipotle and I
didn't hesitate I was like yeah two
scoops so like it's gonna be 325 I was
like yeah that's fine as soon as I hit
that I was like I'm rich it was like
Macaulay Culkin at home alone this is
the height of luxury like I just
literally that was and so you know I was
like okay and and we had a really cool
thing going like I think media was was
doing good at the time you could say I
was pretty high functioning because more
or less the team didn't know although
the other day I was talking to Kyle in
San Diego I was like I was like bro
thanks for sticking with Echo did you
know he's like yeah you know I gotta
smelt it sometimes wow yeah yeah I will
say this you look younger I do now yeah
wow yeah I mean I pretty much uh stopped
drinking and completely or you just it's
in moderation now
um not completely but yeah I mean more
than moderation like once a month wow
you know I think that's an interesting
concept because you feel like there's
this message that it's All or Nothing
right like that
moderation doesn't exist and maybe for
some people it doesn't but I think
there's a lot of people out there that
could really improve their lives by
cutting back well yeah totally and and I
think as part of the end I'm also
studying it Andrew men for like two
hours on alcohol and getting getting
some of that the entrepreneurship thing
has been strong as far as uh uh you know
you get an eighth day 25 hours a day and
eight eight days a week because if you
drink heavy I remember Sam oven said
this wait break that down for me again
like well because if you do drink
that's enough to have you feel it the
next day you lose that day okay you lose
that morning yeah or at least you're
just not at your best right so if you
actually obviously you can only
technically have seven days but you're
getting a whole nother day yeah I
remember I was at this like business
event and this guy was talking about how
giving up alcohol helped him
like just it was that was like a net
negative so he was going from like a
purely mathematics very analytical
person and he was like if I just want to
have higher performance then I and so to
your point though I do think a level I
think I mean even this in the Bible
celebration yeah you know uh and and
feasts yeah Jesus turned water into wine
yeah and so but uh but there's like the
Practical side but some of my friend
asked me the other day Alejandro he was
like
number one he was like bro why didn't
she tell me when you were like just
crushing like just living that rapper
lifestyle once and friends you know uh
and I was like you know I don't know bro
I was in a tough spot but he goes what
was one of the ships and one of the
shifts was
Sean Bradley My First Son yeah on the
countdown towards Sean Bradley being
born I'm asking myself who do I want to
be for my son and and who do I want to
be as a father for him and that was a
big a big influence did Sonia ever give
you an ultimatum
uh no she didn't I mean the wedding I
know the extent well yeah what did it
what ended up happening actually was the
reason I even got into it was because
she actually had some medical marijuana
which is a great thing you know I mean I
think that's the a really good oh sure
yeah I want it and uh for me it wasn't
really the medical it was kind of like
you know let's hit the Peace Pipe and uh
Cheech and Chong you know what I'm
saying and so and and there was actually
I've dealt with that's a whole nother
thing actually burn out by over work of
chronic pain in my arms we could Circle
back on that
um it was it was certainly partly that's
what Kyle said he goes I didn't know if
it was medical because of chronic pain
that I've dealt with the thing is is it
wasn't it besides maybe kind of escaping
the pain it doesn't treat the pain no
which I think people understand but all
that to say was that was kind of my
first foray into it then for her she
kind of took the exit ramp but was just
aware that it was what do you mean she
took the exit ramp of like marijuana use
oh it stopped using it okay but she was
never like you know I feel like you're
drinking too much or it feels like
you're smoking too much or like it was
dude stop playing I mean from Sports I
was I was to play actually I was at that
time because again no kids that was when
I was gaming yeah man you know you sound
like a real have some whiskey
I had some Red Dead Redemption where's
the Same Damn Sport uh sweats for like
five days yeah not really though I mean
I'm actually still like crushing
business Monday through Friday but you
know kind of begins or whatever
um now that you have kids
um
what is your thought on like for example
you you run a social media company a
media company if you will and you teach
people how to do this uh it's part of
your you just said I I'm probably
consuming more than I have in the past
although different than probably the
feed but
if things were exactly as they are today
when your kid and your kids were say 12
15 years old would you let them have
phones would you let them go on social
media what would that look like I'm a
little too Cavalier I would I do would
you let them have guns and knives and
hookers and I in moderation uh you know
I mean like so so we're actually
incredibly there's no screen time all
day long for our son okay and one of the
things that's a huge blessing is where
we're at in our business is we have a
nanny so he's reading books and he's in
the backyard and then when my work day
ends more or less nine to five like and
I work at home so I can see him in the
middle of the day or do whatever but I I
also grab and we'll go on a walk and
then we will give him screen time at
like the end of the day or whatever
we've also gone two weeks without screen
time oh sometimes as a tired parent
though tired from a wood day or whatever
like that's that is the only option like
if you also if I need to actually have a
conversation or if like you give them
the screen you actually can if Sony is
gone I can actually take a shower and
yeah you know for a reaction and have
them sit on the floor there it's a
safety thing so and and it's the way to
have a peaceful meal sometimes you know
what what this is triggering in me
though now that I'm learning as a parent
there is no topic that triggers more
people than them judging how you parent
oh yes like just I made a few comments
on social media and people were like you
know I made a comment about like the
child's room being their own and I was
It was kind of it was a random thing
that our micro editor cut out about this
is my property like I like their room is
my room I can go in your room or
something like that and somebody was
like if you don't respect your kid's
privacy good luck they're not going to
text you when they're and I was like
whoa that escalated quickly absolutely
you know yeah and and so much lack of
context but just all that to say about
people's even the other day we were at a
restaurant waiting and there was two
ladies and he was grabbing for their
phone okay to reached from their phone
and we're like oh ha ha ha like he likes
the phone he loves watching blippi and
like the judgy eyes hit us and they were
like you allow your son to look at the
screen we were in this kind of More
Country Town in Southwest Washington
yeah and I was like this you you've made
assessments of like our entire value
system as if their kids didn't sit down
and watch cartoons and what's the
difference sure right yeah and then I
mean I know there are differences but in
essence we're talking about uh
entertaining A Child yeah and so Sonia
is an incredible mom and very assertive
she's you know I have bought like every
single parenting book I haven't read any
of them but I purchased all the books
and they're in a pile Sonya is actually
reading them yeah and so I think that's
how it's going to make us a killer team
and and I lean more on the side of like
this is the modern world so so I do I
want us to be active which we are
reading physical books which our son
loves being out in nature which we are
uh running with my son in a jogger or
two boys uh in a Thule jogger and then
also you know and then look at the
screen at night like because that's also
the lifestyle I'm living so I want to be
true to what it is and learning social
or being active on social
um watching it maybe you want to be a
Creator maybe you won't yeah there is a
there's an obscure Bible verse in
Ecclesiastes that says the man who fears
God avoids all extremes and
I think that
extremes are are can get weird like no
phone no technology like okay that's a
little I think it streams in anything
but it's politics sure
um people's opinions uh just any extreme
I just I don't get it yeah I'm pretty
and we're great like like we were
talking about like politically like I I
want to listen to both sides because I
want to have an open mind and I think
both sides are insane yeah and you know
where the people who make the most sense
are somewhere in the middle one hope
that we have these two uh parties but I
mean I just think that there's a way to
be level-headed about this and and not
everything has to be so polarizing
there's always a way to look at things
you know we could spend a long time
talking about that but back to social
media and parenting you know
um
when my kids were little
if social media wasn't as it really
didn't take off the way it is now until
like 2010 2011 you know that's when I
remember like oh I gotta use it
but it was it was my computer it was the
my laptop it was
um emails it was blogs it was uh you
know creating things
um on my computer yeah and so I think
about when they were really little and I
worked from home
how often you know if you have a phone
you can kind of follow them into their
room and you can you know kind of keep
an eye on them and be on your phone but
then when my kids were young I I could I
had to have them kind of near me but I
was on the computer and I would have to
like really stop myself and try to go
out and do something so that I wasn't
constantly like not paying attention not
present right and and so I wonder what
it's like now for parents who
you have your phone with you 24 7. you
have that distraction with you 24 7. how
do you keep yourself present sure and uh
you know with I know nothing about any
of this stuff with only a two and a half
year old I can't even imagine you know
seven eight ten twelve what kids can
access on their phones what age do you
give them a cell phone because in the
fact of our son like being able to watch
YouTube kids app and we're we're look at
what he's watching and we're like well
that's getting sketched and you can kind
of like opt in of different things even
on the YouTube kids app yeah so we're
very thoughtful Sonia morso you know and
uh and in terms of that consumption but
I think man that phone is a window into
some good stuff and a lot of bad stuff
and so I mean the worst thing that
happened when I was growing up is you
fourth grade go to school and someone
brought a Playboy to school like and it
was at the corner of the playground
right everybody runs around and like
that was your first like I to this day I
vividly remember that's the first time I
saw like pornography or somebody naked
really yeah and just thinking like oh my
God I'm a horrible person now I can
never tell my parents I saw this and to
think now kids could just type in
anything because I've done it
accidentally you're Googling something
you're like whoa yeah you know and that
that's kind of crazy to think that they
without the right parental controls in
place and and even with those there's
just so it's scary but it's also where
we are and you know I'd love for those
of you who are listening or watching
um what are your thoughts like what age
does it feel appropriate for you to give
your kid if you've got kids who have
phones how do you set up boundaries for
them what programs are you using yeah um
what lessons have you learned I mean
there's so many horror stories I've
heard and uh it's but it's also I hear
so many parents who are like I have to
give them a phone because all their
friends have phones I have to give them
phone because I have to know how to get
in touch with them how so that they're
safe so I can track them you know and I
guess it's just being vigilant and
what's funny about that though is again
now we are we do have tracking you can
see where they are all the time so you
can know if they said they were going to
go one place or whatever
um and parents are freaking out and
again I'm treading lightly because I
don't have kids in the situation yet but
how did we grow up I mean you're
listening to this how did you grow up if
your parents feral child your parents
just dropped me off please 100 they
completely took your true word and I
lied all the time I was like I was I was
going I'm like I'm going to Jordan's
house because that was my window to go
wherever I want absolutely and you know
then you could that you're in a car you
would and so and and better For Better
or Worse maybe for worse but
nevertheless we are here today yeah and
all the parents listening to this are
here today so so we do go to these
extremes of this like you compare it to
cartoons or radio or TV and everything
was like gonna be like the demise of
society demise of society and and
Society does adapt and all the way back
to being present though I I think you
have to be alert and Vigilant and
thoughtful and disciplined and
disciplined and so you know Sonia often
jokes should be like you're always on
your phone
and and I was like that you go you're
remembering maybe I was always on my
phone like two years ago but I I like
read a new book I've been putting my
phone away every night and trying to get
you off your phone and just these
different like seasons and so
um when we're just thoughtful and aware
I am I am very aware of thinking what
one of the things a lot of kids crave
and I notice Sean Bradley are two and a
half year old is he just wants to like
Daddy watch me like look at what I'm
doing yes because you could go hang out
with them and I could just scroll the
whole time and do some good stuff and so
my thought is just is put the phone away
it's all good yeah and just watch him
kick the ball around you know play so
I certainly am already making mistakes
and and have a lot to learn but I am
just trying to be a thoughtful and
intentional dad and I'm trying to avoid
extremes because right the other thing
is like they say oh nobody talks to each
other at dinner anymore yeah everyone's
just looking at their phone but then on
the flip side you're like yeah but at
some point you also had like nothing to
talk about so now it's like kind of cool
because you can you both you both are
online shopping together yeah like so
like Sony and I oh hey check do you like
this one like so so people go these
extremes like you can't be on your phone
and it's not meaningful it still could
be meaningful yeah I think you just have
to be aware I find it's dopamine for me
it's like I I can't get in the shower
without something plain I like I will
stand there and take like 20 minutes to
find something to watch or to listen to
and then hook up a speaker I take a four
minute shower what is wrong with me I do
the same thing I have to get my
Bluetooth speaker going what is wrong
like I can't take a format like I
started to spend 25 minutes to take a
four minute shower you know what's also
funny is uh people say like okay the
number one thing every day you must not
do is check your phone and get out of
bed and you shouldn't have your phone
near your bed because of the Wi-Fi
signal yeah it should be in another room
and I'm I'm pretty disciplined about my
morning practice like yeah reading the
Bible prayer all these things are very
important to me
saying that I check my phone first thing
when I wake up like I just actually go
to my phone right and then it is the
first thing I do I do sleep next to it
yeah and uh I'm not saying that's good
where are you checking social media or
you check like I check text messages I
need to make sure that no one died
um that's all all of my friends and team
wish I checked my text messages that's
actually one of the areas I avoid I um I
usually the the place like and and being
that it's our business and being that
we've scheduled we have schedule uploads
most times I get up before them take
that think media because that's usually
5 a.m or 4 a.m and I'm usually awake and
then I'm waiting because I'm I'm trying
to see it's it's what we release YouTube
videos and they're ranked one out of ten
okay yeah of compared to your past tense
right right so so usually first thing I
do which is very pretty they don't work
instantly no it is the first thing I do
and it's like is the video right is
there something wrong with it well
you're troubleshooting yeah and and and
then also I will then I usually go to
Instagram and I scroll all right and I
and I maybe go DMS and I'm like and and
I'm yeah I'm pretty much a better person
than you yeah because I don't do that
right but I had to break that habit yeah
because let me tell you yeah I I could
lay there for hours like the most
embarrassing thing is when you get that
Tick Tock notification like come on
you've been scrolling too long I'll like
look around like oh my God I'm so
embarrassed that yeah just lost control
so so for me I but I still need a
dopamine hit I still need something so
before I go to bed I pick a podcast or
an audiobook just start my morning with
and so I just I just look to see if
there's text messages in case someone's
died or needs me urgently most of those
I ignore it but that but then I I still
need content planning the podcast for
the morning is really smart because I
think I'm getting up in the morning with
No Agenda yet and I do have an agenda
once I hit my journal the Bible like my
plan which I don't get stuck scrolling
it's just what I am I going to the
restroom yes and like brush my teeth and
it's kind of here and then I go
downstairs and coffee I will admit I
feel better if I just turn on I have
this this playlist called morning
miracle playlist on Spotify okay which
is kind of like an ambient link to it
cool kind of very kind of meditative but
create a very hand curated songs that
I've picked out in the last couple years
all instrumental which is my whole
morning routine deal and if I just play
that better than content better than a
podcast or YouTube videos man it's just
such a good state it allows me to wake
I've got such a good recommendation for
you though I mean it sounds like that
works but
this you have got to subscribe to the
chalene show okay it is your mornings
are going to change and and just listen
to just just follow and just first thing
you do every morning just listen to
chalene Joe yeah you're gonna love it
thanks for being a guest on it by the
way super great so fun talking to you
and uh what a what a roller coaster well
they're used to my ADHD jumping all
around but it was good fun hope you guys
enjoyed it please leave your comments
below we'd love to know your thoughts on
the variety of topics that we talked
about today
um be kind be nice even if you disagree
you can be polite about it we appreciate
that and as always we would love for you
to subscribe like this video if you're
listening on whatever app you listen to
for podcasts make sure you're following
like that's the new thing instead of
subscribers just to make sure you're
following and if you enjoyed it hit the
share button and text this to your
bestie all right guys thanks for being
here we'll talk to you soon I love you I
mean it
thank you
[Music]